---           
layout: post
title: On KJ 
date: 2014-01-16 19:44:52 UTC
updated: 2014-01-16 19:44:52 UTC
comments: false
categories: 
---

I told Aliffah that there are two ministers that I believe are capable of bringing our nation forward as our former PM Tun Dr Mahathir did. They are his son, Mukriz&nbsp;and this guy, KJ.<br /><br />Personally, I don't like him, but among the crop of ministers that we have now, he is the one that is most capable of leading the country, perhaps, in the future. Here is why: excerpts of a BH interview.<br /><br /><b>Khairy: Some BN leaders 'syok sendiri' online&nbsp;</b><br /><br />Umno Youth chief Khairy Jamaluddin has lamented that BN's social media strategy has been ineffective as some BN leaders had the tendency to be ‘syok sendiri’ (self-indulgent) in their online engagement. "I see many BN leaders - forgive me for saying this - even though they are active on social media, they only speak to their followers, not to outsiders or independents.<br /><br />"They think that their own sentiment is the national sentiment. That is wrong. "That proves that our social media strategy has been ineffective. (BN leaders) speak to their own people and 'syok sendiri' while the opposition try to reach out to the people in general," Khairy was quoted as saying in a Berita Harian interview today.<br /><br />He also acknowledged that attacks against the families of politicians on social media were unavoidable. "As a politician, I advise my family to live moderately. When we are chosen as a politician, a minister or the likes, our families have to play their role. "If we want to live freely, then do not be a politician," he was quoted as saying.<br /><br />Khairy said in the interview that the rakyat's anger over the price hikes is real and urged leaders not to make statements that will hurt the rakyat's feelings. He added that the government should heed former prime minister Dr Mahathir Mohamad's (right) advice that it should cut more costs instead of increasing prices.<br />When asked whether the government's current cost-cutting measures were enough, he said more was to come and volunteered to have his own pay docked.