---           
layout: post
title: Steganography
date: 2014-01-16 18:16:30 UTC
updated: 2014-01-16 18:16:30 UTC
comments: false
categories: 
---

I'm currently working on my final year project (I just did my first part's presentation this morning, which was terrible, in a way) which involves a technique called "Steganography" or Stego, for short.<br /><br />The purpose of Stego is similar to Cryptology, in a way that it is used to protect the valuable data from unauthorized access. However, there is a huge difference between the two. Encryption techniques apply specific algorithms to the valuable data (plaintext) to produce encrypted data (ciphertext).<br /><br />On contrary, Stego focuses on hiding the valuable data (hidden message) within another non valuable data (cover). It's about "hiding the data in a plain sight". In most usage, Stego technique is designed so that the non authorized user does not even realize the hidden message even exists at the first place.<br /><br />There are various type of medium use for cover. Most notably is image. But lets start with some text files example first.<br /><br />Lets say, I want to save my password for 2 different websites that I have registered to. I create a text file, naming it <b><i>visited_countries.txt&nbsp;</i></b>suggesting to everyone that this file lists all the countries that I have visited. In the files, I have these following content:<br />&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <span style="font-family: Courier New, Courier, monospace;">indonessia japan korea usa france nigeria bangladesh india china</span><br /><br />&nbsp;The passwords that I stored in the file were <span style="font-family: Courier New, Courier, monospace;">ijkufnbic</span> and <span style="font-family: Courier New, Courier, monospace;">naosrianh</span>.<br /><br />Anyone else who opens the file realizes that the file is merely listing the countries and is not of important. But because the fact that I know there is a hidden message[1] and also the algorithm used[2], I am able to get my passwords from this list.<br /><br />Hidden message, in a plain sight.<br /><br />p/s: the first and the second characters of each country.<br /><br />